project: Math&Numbers Assistant
name: Irene von Ah
GitHub username: imv2025
edX username: IreneIsabel2022
Location: Switzerland
Developed: 26 Nov2025


About this project
Math&Numbers Assistant is an interactive learning platform dedicated to mathematical core concepts,
where students can test what they learned. There is an explanation, and the possibility to reinforce
that knowledge. To use this learning app, students need to register for later authentication.


Purpose
To engage others in my learning passion: Maths and Numbers. These concepts are the core of many
developments.


Educational Value
The platform is not only a calculator but also a learning companion. It encourages students to explore
mathematical definitions, validate their inputs, and reflect on explanations. This active learning approach
reinforces knowledge and builds confidence.


Motivation
I chose to focus on numbers because they are the foundation of engineering, science, and everyday life.
By sharing my passion through this app, I hope to inspire learners worldwide to see the beauty in mathematics.


Blueprints
Learn Web App: Controller app.py; Templates: 12 dynamic HTMLs; Static: CSS for style;
3 txt: requirements, explanation, schema; 1 sqlite db; 1 demo video


Keywords
CS50, Web App, Flask, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jinja, Bootstrap, SQL, DataBase, Python, Math, Numbers, Learn


Requirements
cs50, Flask, Flask-Session, pytz, requests


Installation
To run the project, clone the repository, create a virtual environment, install the requirements, and run flask.
This simple process ensures that anyone can reproduce the environment and test the app as intended.


Authentication
Students need to create an account to access to this content.


Tech
Register, LogIn, LogOut
For this process POST method via HTTP, ensuring password security rules.


Database
myproject.db includes 3 tables: users, unique index, and default sequence.


Controller
The platform controller app.py ensures dynamic routing navigation mainly via render_template.


Appearance
The Bootstrap style of the site is located in a separate CSS file, which standardizes
the look of the site. A toggle theme is implemented for customized background light-dark mode.
The site is also device responsive.


Maths Concepts Core

Index gives the opportunity to briefly get concept definitions, via radio buttons, in order to focus
on the selected concept individually.

Headers allow navigation specifically to practical functionalities: via calculator and number types.
-Calculator with basic operators: addition, subtraction, multiplication, division.
-Number types: abundant, even, narcissistic, prime, and pronic.

To support the student, each concept includes a short explanation:
- Abundant numbers: integers for which the sum of their proper positive divisors is greater than the number itself.
- Even numbers: integers divisible by 2 without remainder.
- Narcissistic numbers: non‑negative integer n such that the sum of its digits each raised to the power of
  the number of digits equals n.
- Prime numbers: integers greater than 1 that have exactly two distinct positive divisors: 1 and themselves.
- Pronic numbers: numbers formed by the product of two consecutive integers, n(n+1).

For each of these types, the code inside the app decides if those numbers are valid to be what they attempt to be.
If not, it returns an explanation including hints for the next attempt. If valid, it returns: the amount of
available numbers up to this input, their sum, and the list of all of them at once.


Me: Developer Info
Here I introduce myself to my students as a Swiss Latin polyglot Electronics Engineer who likes
to learn and travel, mother of two daughters who increase my passion for caring for others.


Faced challenges
To develop a project from scratch requires unwrapping your real passion, otherwise it is hardly possible,
because the effort must be worthwhile and must overcome the time and energy invested. I needed equal time to
consider, plan, and decide what and how to do it, as for implementing it. Clear statements reduce the time
of driving yourself into circles and allow you to focus in the chosen direction. Core here is to clarify
what skills you have to achieve your goal, and what you need to accomplish it within the required time:
Resource Management.

Next features
Expand the available selection of numbers (currently only 5 of them), but there are many more interesting numbers.
Implement the concept dictionary via OpenAI GPT and propose correlations of the chosen numbers.

Demo video: https://youtu.be/xuWB_Oc7gKs
3‑minute walkthrough showing the main features of Math&Numbers app running via flask run and browser demo.
